the Hamas run Health Ministry in Gaza
says 274 Palestinians were killed during
Saturday's Israeli offensive on the
nerat refugee camp the operation led to
the rescue of four Israeli hostages
taken by Hamas during the October the
7th attacks they were freed during the
raid in broad daylight Israel has
previously estimated there were fewer
than 100 casualties footage from the
areas our AXA Hospital shows badly
wounded people lying on the ground the
top Diplomat Joseph Burell has condemned
the killings describing them as another
Massacre of civilians Mustafa bouti is
the Secretary General and co-founder of
the Palestinian national initiative and
he spoke earlier to my colleague maxing
croell and gave his reaction the latest
development in Israel and Gaza well
there is a great amount of anger because
in the process the Israeli Army
committed as Joseph pel said a horrible
Massacre killing no less than 218
Palestinians mostly children and women
bombarding whole neighborhoods for no
reason and injuring in addition to that
400 people many of whom will die because
Israel has already destroyed most
medical facilities and hospitals in Gaza
it was a horrible act uh of course we
want all the prisoners to be released
but there was another way to do that
which is to conclude a deal at this rate
at this rate Netanyahu will need 20
years of massacres to release the rest
of the 120 Israeli prisoners well Israel
of course disputes that this was a
massacre and it it does seem that the
number of casualties is contested but it
certainly with scores but Israel's view
is don't take hostages then we won't
need to free them and civilians won't be
at
risk do I do Israelis take hostages we
have uh everybody talks about the 120
Israeli prisoners or hostages as you
called them but nobody speaks about the
14,500 Palestinians in Israeli presence
including 5,000 who were kidnapped in
Gaza nobody speaks what was remarkable
is that the Israelis said that the
Israeli prisoners who were released were
in very good health condition and then
well well taken care of well except
except we know other hand on the the
other hand let me finish on the other
hand
14,500 Palestinian prisoners are
subjected to torture 52 Palestinian
prisoners have been killed already in
Israeli prisons since the 7th of October
the Israel the Israeli the Israeli
government contests those accusations
government spokes person of the Israeli
government 12 there are 116 hostages
left 40 of them I believed to have been
have died whilst in Gaza everyone always
talks everybody talks about everyone
talks about an either or situ situation
that that one thing is separate from the
other all of these issues are tightly
bound up you've mentioned this deal How
likely is it that you think a ceasefire
deal will really come to pass when we
we've got all of these different
elements which could force Hamas to dig
in or could force the or persuade the
Israelis that well we've rescued four
we'll try and get some more of the
hostages
out and tell you what Israeli leaders
say what Israeli opposition leaders say
they say that Netanyahu cares only about
himself he doesn't care about the
hostages who the Hamas who the
Hamas Mr B I know you you you've told us
that you have no link in any way with
Hamas but who do Hamas care about
they're using people surely as civilians
as human Shields and there will
inevitably be civilian casualties in any
sort of operation at all if that's what
if that
continues I would really appreciate if
you allow me to answer please your
questions uh and please don't interrupt
me uh I don't sometimes I'm I'm Sor Mr
I'm sorry it's it's an opportunity here
to explore some of the things that you
say before you move on to make a the
next Point each of your points requires
and deserves some
attention because you if you if you
accept only the Israeli Narrative of
course you will say so but you have to
to see our narrative as well and the
narrative here is that this whole
problem is related to the fact that
Israel is occupying us since 60 since 57
years Israel is displacing us since 76
years that's is the roots these are the
roots of the problem and there are
Palestinian prisoners I'm not defending
Hamas I don't belong to Hamas but I'm
saying there is a better way of getting
the Israeli prisoners safe which is to
conclude a deal and the deal would mean
release of all Israeli prisoners and
release of Palestinian prisoners some of
whom have been in Israeli jails for 43
years what and a complete and total
ceasefire and end of this war you know
how many people the Israeli Army killed
up till now 46,000 including for 15,000
children that's why gues the United
Nations Secretary General decided to put
the Israeli Army on The Blacklist of
Those Who Kill children along along with
Palestinian Islamic Jihad and Hamas and
as I as you would expect Israel Israel
has rejected that label let me finish
here let me finish why do you keep
telling me what Israel says I am not I
you don't represent Israel I know what
Israel says I don't represent Israel and
I don't represent the Palestinians but I
was robust with the uh uh the Israeli uh
commentator I spoke to an hour ago which
you may not have heard this is not about
whose side I believe we're trying to
interrogate both narratives final
question from final question to you to
what extent is all of this a faia of
Palestinian politicians generally for
generations to get a grip of their own
situation surely there must be a better
way to run Gaza if if Hamas are the best
people have to choose from they'll stick
with Hamas are they really the best
option for the Gaza Strip you know this
is an excellent question
and my answer to you is that we would
have had much better leadership if we
were allowed as people to practice our
right of democratic elections who stood
against our elections in 2021 Israel who
did not support our free Democratic
elections United States of America why
don't the world allow us to elect our
leaders freely and democratically as
everybody else is allowed to do and as
your people are going to do in Britain
we need democ Ry we need the right to
choose our leaders and Israel and the
United States has no right whatsoever to
impose on us leaders or collaborators
that would sustain the Israeli military
occupation of Gaza which should not
continue it has to stop the end of
occupation is the way to get to peace
and democracy and prosperity for
everybody that was a Mustafa bouti there
speaking to Martin crool uh let me just
bring you a line of uh breaking news
that we have this is actually coming
from the Roy's news agency saying that
the um the Hamas armed Wing is uh saying
that three Israel hostages were killed
including a US citizen during that
Israel hostage uh operation that we were
talking about earlier in Gaza so that is
as I said coming from the Reuters news
agency um and in a video posted on uh
the um hamas's um telegram channel on
Sunday saying that the host were killed
um as part of that Israeli military
operation in which uh some of those
hostages that we were saying the four
hostages freed there well uh Yosi bin is
a former Israeli Justice Minister and
peace negotiator and he initiated the
Oslo Peace process and the informal
Geneva peace Accord and I spoke to him a
little earlier and asked him what impact
that that Israeli military operation
will have on further negotiations to
release more
hostages well I I believe that what
happened yesterday was of course very
important since Hamas doesn't show any
Readiness for exchange of the civilian
hostages the babies the old the elderly
people in their hands with the
Palestinian
prisoners H but apparently it may it may
have an influence on Hamas now if they
understand that Israel will not just
wait for the answer whether they want
such an exchange or not but if they
don't answer it will release as as many
hostages as it it can and it is not easy
and as you said there were civilian
casualties on the Palestinian side but
if Hamas is actually hiding the
hostages in the this civilian homes it
cannot complain about Israel trying to
to save them the impact may be ER I'm
not sure but I hope ER accelerate the
the the ER willingness of the parties to
negotiate about a deal in this deal all
the the hostages should be released and
the
Palestinian prisoners would release an
exchange a big much bigger much higher
number than the Israeli hostages but the
main question for me the main question
is whether we are going now to something
like the President Biden plan which was
offered already more than a week ago to
both sides or are we actually playing
games with each other not to be the ones
who are rejecting it wholeheartedly but
not accepting in and and whatever and if
Hamas is planning to remain
in Gaza which I believe is bad news for
the Free World we we heard that the H
master and health Ministry has said that
274 Palestinians were killed in that
raid four four hostages released as we
know does that seem proportionate action
to
you it is not a question of proportion
Israel is has all the right in the world
in my view to release these innocent
people these innocent babies and elderly
who are in the hands of of Hamas now it
it may cost a price and I'm very sad
really it is not just a liap service I'm
very sad to see a people who are be
becoming the on the Palestinian side the
victims of such act but they should
address Hamas and know that if Hamas is
hiding our people in these neighborhoods
Israel will not say oh since you did
such a a very
clever thing and hid them in those
neighborhoods we will not try to release
our people we should as long as Hamas is
not releasing them it is our role not
only our right to release as many
Israelis as
possible yes speaking to me there